The Obama administration is disappointed after a vote Friday that clears the way for porn sites to use .xxx for their domain names. 

The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the governing body who overseas domains, voted 8-3 to allow adult sites to end with .xxx instead of a more mainstream one like .com. 

Lawrence Strickling, who is an assistant commerce secretary, advises President Obama on matters of information and communications tells Fox News: 

"We are disappointed that ICANN ignored the clear advice of governments worldwide, including the U.S. This decision goes against the global public interest, and it will open the door to more Internet blocking by governments and undermine the stability and security of the Internet." 

The issue has stirred some controversy. Supporters saying it would help steer people away from accidentally going to porn sites, and also protect children. 

Porn sites wouldn't be forced to use it though, but would have to dole out extra money to register the new domain if they choose to adopt the new domain. 

Oddly enough, religious groups and the porn industry were united in not wanting the domain created. Many in the industry feared the government would demand they use it, and also that too many sites would then pop up. Family and religious groups charge it legitimizes the industry. 

ICANN had been mulling over the .xxx domain for years and the Bush administration was also vocally against it. 

Strickling, who also heads up the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), noted the U.S.'s position has been to focus on the family in steering children away from adult sites. 

"U.S. policy has long sought to empower parents and families to protect children from Internet pornography and provide effective tools and education. We are skeptical that the addition of the new .xxx domain will provide any additional protection for children; rather, it is likely to encourage confusion globally," Strickling said. 

Wrong domains mixing with porn has even been an issue for the White House . The White House's official website has long been whitehouse.gov, but in the early days of the Internet, many people went to whitehouse.com thinking they'd reach the government's website. It was actually a porn site, and has since been disbanded. 

The new domain could be up and running by the summer.
