President Obama covered the gamut from conservative to liberal causes in his State of the Union speech Tuesday night. While the political result of his strategy is still being fleshed out, the president hit on the soft spots of those on either end of the political spectrum. Just don't call it "triangulation," a term this White House isn't keen on using. 

A little something for conservatives... 

Government spending: 

"[N]ow that the worst of the recession is over, we have to confront the fact that our government spends more than it takes in. That is not sustainable. Every day, families sacrifice to live within their means. They deserve a government that does the same." 

Federal regulations: 

"To reduce barriers to growth and investment, I've ordered a review of government regulations. When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix them." 

Cutting the deficit: 

"We need to take responsibility for our deficit, and reform our government. That's how our people will prosper. That's how we'll win the future." 

Altering Obama's health care law: 

"Let me be the first to say that anything can be improved. If you have ideas about how to improve this law by making care better or more affordable, I am eager to work with you. We can start right now by correcting a flaw in the legislation that has placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on small businesses." 



A little something for the liberals... 

Clean energy and taxing oil companies: 

"With more research and incentives, we can break our dependence on oil with biofuels, and become the first country to have 1 million electric vehicles on the road by 2015. We need to get behind this innovation. And to help pay for it, I'm asking Congress to eliminate the billions in taxpayer dollars we currently give to oil companies." 

Deportation of children of illegal immigrants: 

"They grew up as Americans and pledge allegiance to our flag, and yet live every day with the threat of deportation. Others come here from abroad to study in our colleges and universities. But as soon as they obtain advanced degrees, we send them back home to compete against us. It makes no sense." 

Social Security : 

"To put us on solid ground, we should also find a bipartisan solution to strengthen Social Security for future generations. And we must do it without putting at risk current retirees, the most vulnerable, or people with disabilities; without slashing benefits for future generations; and without subjecting Americans' guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market." 

Permanent tax cuts for the wealthy: 

"And if we truly care about our deficit, we simply cannot afford a permanent extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2% of Americans. Before we take money away from our schools, or scholarships away from our students, we should ask millionaires to give up their tax break."
