Rick Santorum unveiled a new television ad in Michigan Wednesday which humorously hits back at attack ads run by a Super Pac backing Mitt Romney . 

The ad is called "Rombo" and shows Romney as a Rambo-esque character with an automatic weapon firing mud at his enemies. It is Santorum's attempt to fight back against Romney's ads machine and it looks like the next two weeks leading up to the Feb. 28 primary could get ugly. 

The "Super Pac " Restore Our Future, which supports Romney, has already spent $250,000 in the state and plans to drop another $640,000 over the next few days, mostly in television ads, which have been mostly negative during the past few months. 

The ad shows the Romney character chasing around cardboard cut-outs of Santorum and unsuccessfully shooting mud at it. "Romney and his Super Pac have spent a staggering 20 million brutally attacking fellow Republicans." The ad continues, "Why? Because Romney's trying to hide from his big government Romneycare, and his support for job killing cap and trade." 

The ad concludes with the Romney character mitakenly hitting himself with the mud and the announcer adding, "...in the end Mitt Romney's ugly attacks are going to backfire." 

The ad also comes as polls in Michigan show Santorum surging. 

Romney says it's Santorum who is doing the attacking. "My campaign hasn't run negative ads against Rick Santorum . His campaign ran attack ads against me in South Carolina and his PAC did so in Missouri," said Romney Wednesday morning during an interview on Fox News. 

Mr. Romney was also not making any promises to stay positive in Michigan, "I m not saying we won t finally go after the guy, but frankly, he s been going to go after me, as that ad suggests. 

A loss in Michigan, a state Mitt Romney won in 2008, and where he grew up, would be a tough blow to the Romney campaign. 



Therefore, many are expecting the Romney friendly Super Pac will fire up the negative ads soon, and often before election day. 

Watch the latest video at FoxNews.com
