Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani (R) threw his support behind Mitt Romney on FOX Friends Monday saying the former Massachusetts Governor has proven he's the most effective republican to take on President Obama. 

"This is going to be an election about the economy and if I look at all the Republican field and Democratic field, who better than Mitt Romney to carry our banner and to point out this has been a failed economic program and that with sensible, conservative economic principles, this country will have a boom," said Giuliani. "We'll grow unlike anything we've actually predicted." 

Giuliani also said he wanted to support a candidate with strong foreign policy skills who would stand up for America. 

"I think Obama has us down a very dangerous path with Iran, with this pathetic desire to want to negotiate with them," Giuliani said. "I don't think you're going to see that with Mitt Romney ." 

"I'm very proud to earn the support of such a distinguished leader and public servant to our country," said Mitt Romney in a statement after Giuliani's announcement. "Rudy's successes in turning around New York City are well-known and his name is synonymous with leadership, uniting a city in the aftermath of the worst terrorist attack in our nation's history. I look forward to his help in the months ahead." 

As for any speculation about becoming Romney's running mate, Giuliani said he's sure he's not on the list and is not thinking of running, but added he would help Romney in any way he could. 

Giuliani had criticized Romney in December saying he had never seen anyone change political positions as much as Romney and it would make Romney an easy target for President Obama in the general election. At the time, Giuliani mentioned abortion rights, gun control and universal health care as some of the issues Romney had shifted on throughout his career. 

Both Giuliani and Romney competed for the republican presidential nomination in 2008 that was eventually won by Arizona Senator John McCain .
