The death of the world's most wanted terrorist, Usama bin Laden, continues to reverberate through Capitol Hill . 

CIA Director Leon Panetta holds a classified briefing for members of the House to share details of the operation in the afternoon. Earlier in the day, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein , D-Calif., discusses Sunday's covert operation with the press. 

Given that bin Laden was hiding not in a cave in Afghanistan, but rather in a large compound in a Pakistani town that is home to three army regiments, a House Homeland Security subcommittee entitled "The Threat to the U.S. Homeland Emanating from Pakistan" at 2:00 p.m. ET should reach some interesting conclusions. Just how did the world's most notorious terrorist hide, in the words of one senior administration official, "in plain sight" and for how long? 

Now that the raison d'etre for the war in Afghanistan is dead, what is the next step for US operations there? The Senate Foreign Relations Committee discusses the possible end games for the nation's longest armed conflict with a panel of foreign affairs experts at 10:00 a.m. ET. 

In economic news, Members of the House Democratic and Republican leadership teams hold separate press conferences Tuesday morning to discuss their party's agenda for the week. Much of the talk could focus on the need for Congress to raise the debt ceiling. According to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner , the nation will max out its credit card on August 2, 2011. Failing to reach an agreement by then to increase the amount the nation allows itself to borrow would have catastrophic economic consequences. 

Attorney General Eric Holder testifies before the House Judiciary Committee at 10:15 a.m. ET. Just in time for summer tourist season Congressional leaders will dedicate a statue of former President Gerald Ford in the Capitol Rotunda. Ford, our nation's 38th and only unelected president, served as House Minority Leader as a Republican from Michigan before being appointed to the Vice Presidency in 1973 by then President Richard Nixon . Ford became president when Nixon stepped down on August 9, 1974 in the wake of the Watergate scandal. 

We'll be following all these stories and more, so be sure to stay with Fox News for all the latest.
