Republican candidate Mitt Romney continued his criticism of President Obama's foreign policy today at a fundraiser in New York, claiming he is sending "confusing messages" to the world. 

While Romney has tempered the tone of his rhetoric regarding President Obama's perceived folly in handling the situation in Libya , his senior adviser, Former Ambassador Richard Williamson, doubled down. 

"There's a pretty compelling story that if you had a President Romney, you'd be in a different situation," Williamson told the Washington Post. 

The Obama campaign fired back chiding the Romney campaign for continuing to "shamelessly politicize a sensitive international situation." 

The GOP candidate, however, broadened his critique of the President's foreign policy, lambasting Obama for a host of other dealings in the Middle East he views as shortcomings. 

Governor Romney criticized the President for a failure to support the protesters in Tehran last year, and slammed the President for granting his first interview as President to an Arabic television station. Governor Romney also called Obama's failure to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu a "troubling decision" 

"This is our closest ally and best friend in the Middle East. It stands between a nuclear Iran in some respects and a region that would have more stability without a nuclear Iran. And yet when the prime minister of Israel says I'm going to be in New York can we meet and the president says no, I'm too busy I can't imagine that circumstance," Romney criticized. 

The White House put out a statement denying that there was ever a request for a meeting or a snub on the part of President Obama. Instead, the two leaders spoke for an hour and they are "united in their determination to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon," the statement read. 

Pivoting from foreign policy, Governor Romney blamed the President for painting a rosy picture of the economy on the heels of the Federal Reserve's decision to print more money to keep the economy afloat. 

"People scratch their head because they remember hearing the President talking about how things are better than they were four years ago. And how we're making progress and we should go forward and yet the chairman of the federal reserve is saying the economy is not doing well it's not creating the jobs it needs," Romney said. 

The fundraiser at the Hilton in midtown Manhattan wraps a two-day swing in New York that raked in $7.5 million for the Romney campaign, according to his finance chair. 

Governor Romney is heading to Ohio-historically a must wins state- for a rally this afternoon.
