"Welcome to Hell, bin Laden." 

That's how former Baptist minister and Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee summed up the news that the world's most wanted man is dead. 

"It is unusual to celebrate a death," Huckabee, who still hasn't decided on a 2012 presidential run, said in a statement, continuing, "but today Americans and decent people the world over cheer the news that madman, murderer and terrorist [U]sama Bin Laden is dead." 

Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney , a devout member of the Mormon Church who is exploring a 2012 run, said his thoughts were with the thousands of victims and brave servicemen who died pursuing bin Laden. 

"This is a great victory for lovers of freedom and justice everywhere," Romney said in a statement. "Congratulations to our intelligence community, our military and the president." 

Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty noted that President George W. Bush promised to bring bin Laden to justice, but warned the fight against "radical Islamic terrorism is not yet over." The Republican presidential aspirant also praised the current commander in chief by name. 

"I want to congratulate America's armed forces and President Obama for a job well done," Pawlenty wrote. "America will never shrink from the fight, and ultimately those who seek to harm us face only defeat." 

Fellow Minnesotan Rep. Michele Bachmann, who is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, swiftly issued a statement Sunday night. As the news broke Bachmann, who has yet to lay out her future political plans, suggested bin Laden's death might curb the spread of radical Islamic law. 

"Tonight's news does not bring back the lives of the thousands of innocent people who were killed that day by [U]sama bin Laden's horrific plan," she wrote, "and it does not end the threat posed by terrorists, but it is my hope that this is the beginning of the end of Sharia-compliant terrorism." 

Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania Senator who is also thinking of a White House run, congratulated all involved in killing bin laden, but struck a cautionary tone. 

"The threat from Jihadism does not die with bin Laden. As we were vigilant in taking him out we need to demonstrate we will continue to be vigilant until the enemy has been subdued," warned Santorum. 

Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin confined her comments to her Twitter. "Thank you, American men and women in uniform. You are America's finest and we are all so proud. Thank you for fighting against terrorism," the potential - yet still undecided - Palin Tweeted. 

Having questioned the president's birth certificate and legitimacy of Mr Obama's presidency, billionaire businessman and reality TV host Donald Trump began his statement with high praise. "I want to personally congratulate President Obama and the men and women of the Armed Forces for a job well done," he said. Trump says he will not make a decision about running for president until June. 

"We should spend the next several days not debating party politics, but in remembrance of those who lost their lives on 9/11 and those currently fighting for our freedom." 

After analyzing intelligence information, Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich released a statement saying UBL's death is a "tribute to the patient endurance of American justice." 

As a back bencher in Congress during the Cold War in the early 1980's, Gingrich, who is expected to announce his presidential decision in the coming weeks, took part in Pentagon war games in the role of commander in chief. During the George W. Bush Administration, Gingrich was a member of the Presidents' Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB), a group with classified clearances to review top secret intelligence data. 

Commending Bush and Obama, Gingrich also thanked the Seals, but warned of the road ahead. "Radical Islamism did not start with bin Laden and it will not end with his death." 

Gary Johnson, the former New Mexico governor who's exploring a White House bid, release a short statement, commending the military for their "their amazing skill and courage." 

"Terrorism did not die [Sunday,] but it suffered a serious blow -- and a strong message was sent," Johnson said. 

Businessman Hermain Cain, who has made is intention to run for the White House clear, said the country should mark "this occasion with a somber sense of satisfaction." 

Former Gov. Buddy Roemer congratulated Obama and thanked Bush, and said that "We must continue to remain focused on fighting the war and protecting the freedom of Americans." 

Mike Huckabee and Sarah Palin are Fox News Contributor
