MIAMI, FL-- Mitt Romney's presidential campaign released a new Spanish language TV ad Wednesday, called "Nosotros" -- "Us" -- narrated by the GOP presidential candidates youngest son, Craig, and set to air in the battleground state of Florida, where Romney is wooing Hispanic Americans. 



Mostly shot during Romney's last visit to Florida when he received the endorsement of the Cuban-American Florida triumvirate of former Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, his brother and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the ad features the three praising Romney in Spanish. 



"Soy Mitt Romney y apruebo este mensaje. Muchas gracias," Romney says at the end of the 30 second spot. Translation: "I am Mitt Romney and I approved this message. Thank you very much." 



The December event in the "La Conchita" food plant in Medley, near Miami was mostly attended by Cuban-Americans, who appeared impressed by Craig Romney's fluent Spanish, picked up after living in Chile . 



Falling flat among the crowd, however, was Romney's attempt to impress the audience by pointing out that his father was born in Mexico . 



The remark would probably play better in the Mountain West, Southwest or California, but Cuban-American voters are very different from Mexican-American voters. 



The majority of Hispanic voters in Florida are Republican, however, which may make the awkward bio line -- and Romney's tough policies on illegal immigration -- less difficult to swallow for some of Florida s Latino voters. 



On Monday, the former Massachusetts governor said that appealing to Hispanic electorate was important to his candidacy. 



"I need to get 50.1 percent of Americans behind me and perhaps one of the best tests would to take groups like Latino Americans and say how can I get more Latino Americans to support a Republican. If I can do that, why, I will be doing well pretty broadly," he said in Nashua, N.H. 



Romney will be in Florida on Thursday and will attend a rally in West Palm Beach before heading to a fundraiser sponsored by Miami Dolphins owner Steven Ross. 



Florida may be the linchpin to locking up the nomination early, and the latest Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday shows the swing state could have a change of heart in the general election as well. 



While Barack Obama won the state in 2008, Romney leads President Obama by 46-43 percent among registered Sunshine State voters, according to the poll, though the data lie within the margin of error. 



"President Obama needs to mend fences in the Sunshine State, especially among men, whites and those voters without college degrees," said Peter Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. 



Watch the Spanish-language Romney ad here .
