The ObamaCare In The Room 



Today, Obama's Re-Election Campaign Came Out With A New Video Touting His Accomplishments As President.  "President Obama's campaign has released a powerful new 60-second ad touting his accomplishments since taking office." (Wolf Blitzer, "Obama's Glaring Omission," CNN's " Blitzer's Blog ," 5/7/12) 

Notably Absent Were Any Mention Of ObamaCare, Obama's "No. 1 Legislative Achievement."  "But in that ad, the Obama-Biden campaign once again failed to mention what is arguably the administration's No. 1 legislative achievement over the past three-and-a-half years: the health care reform law." (Wolf Blitzer, "Obama's Glaring Omission," CNN's " Blitzer's Blog ," 5/7/12) 

Obama Paid Little Lip Service To ObamaCare This Past Weekend 

Obama's Remarks This Past Weekend Hardly Mentioned ObamaCare.  "I also noticed that the president really didn't spend much time praising his health care achievement in his two lengthy campaign speeches on Saturday in the swing states of Ohio and Virginia." (Wolf Blitzer, "Obama's Glaring Omission," CNN's " Blitzer's Blog ," 5/7/12) "But What I Didn't Hear Was A Robust Statement Taking Credit For Pushing The Affordable Health Care Act Through Congress."  (Wolf Blitzer, "Obama's Glaring Omission," CNN's " Blitzer's Blog ," 5/7/12) 

Obama Is Running From ObamaCare 

Obama Must Not Be Proud Of His Accomplishment During An Election Year.  "But if the president is truly proud of his legislative achievement, why isn't he singing its praises loudly and clearly?" (Wolf Blitzer, "Obama's Glaring Omission," CNN's " Blitzer's Blog ," 5/7/12) Polls Continue To Show That ObamaCare Is Unpopular From Both Sides.  "Maybe that's because polls have shown that the health care law is not all that popular. Most on the right don't like the federal mandates requiring everyone to purchase health insurance if they can afford the premiums. Others, on the left, don't believe that the law goes far enough; they would have preferred a government-sponsored single-payer option along the lines of what Canada has." praises loudly and clearly?" (Wolf Blitzer, "Obama's Glaring Omission," CNN's " Blitzer's Blog ," 5/7/12) 

Which Is Not Surprising As Obama Avoided Celebrating ObamaCare's Second Anniversary 

"Obama Will Not Mark The Two-Year Anniversary Of His Signing Of The Healthcare Law."  "President Obama will not mark the two-year anniversary of his signing of the healthcare law -- which takes place days before the Supreme Court offers a decision on the constitutionality of his signature legislative achievement. Senior administration officials said on Tuesday that Obama will not be offering a vigorous public defense of the law, holding events or even making public remarks in the lead-up to the Supreme Court case." (Amie Parnes, "Obama Will Avoid Health Care Defense During Court Review,"  The Hill's  " Health Watch ," 3/21/12) CNN's Lisa Desjardins : "ICYMI: WH officials tells CNN that President Obama has *no* plans to mark the two-yr anniversary of his health care law passing." (Lisa Desjardins,  Twitter Feed , 3/19/12) Fox News' Ed Henry:  "It s one big deal of an anniversary, but apparently President Obama will not be celebrating." (Ed Henry, "Health care anniversary: Not Such A Big Bleeping Deal?" Fox News , 3/19/12) 

Amazing How Things Change In Just A Few Months 

During An Interview With CBS's Steve Kroft, Obama Claimed That He Deserved Another Four Years Because Of ObamaCare.  CBS'S STEVE KROFT: "Why do you think you deserve to be reelected? What have you accomplished?" OBAMA: "Not only saving this country from a great depression, not only saving the auto industry, but putting in place a system in which we re going to start lowering health care costs and you re never going to go bankrupt because you get sick or somebody in your family gets sick." (CBS' "60 Minutes," 12/11/11)
