Applaud, Don't Attack America's Job Creators 



President Obama's campaign manager Jim Messina is "offended."  He's offended that successful businessmen, America's job creators, disagree with the direction Obama has taken this country.  

In an email to campaign supporters, Messina whined about businessman Charles Koch's recent comments at a private event in Colorado.  There, Koch explained that defeating Barack Obama must be a priority in 2012, and every job creator and unemployed American understands why: this President's policies are not working.             

The Koch family employs over 50,000 Americans.  Companies like theirs create jobs and hire American workers.  Our economic recovery depends on the ability of such businesses to hire the unemployed.  Yet the President and his allies would prefer to fire political attacks at them and punish them with regulations and job-killing taxes.  

Ironically, the President will champion businesses like solar power company Solyndra, which recently laid off 1,100 workers after closing its doors last week.  Solyndra received over half a billion dollars in government loan guarantees after supporting the Obama campaign.   It wasn't long ago that Obama gushed that Solyndra proved success of the stimulus.  Now, it's an example of its failure. 

This is the sad hypocrisy of the Obama administration: they prop up job destroyers and attack job creators, and the result is our crumbling economy.  

Then again, maybe Messina is "offended" that individuals and businesses would dare to donate money to groups opposing the President's job-killing policies.  But while the Obama campaigns pretends that they only take small donations from "everyday Americans," the President jets around the country to fundraiser-after-fundraiser that charges elite donors over $30,000 for a ticket.  And meanwhile, organizers of the Democratic National Convention rake in the very corporate donations the President denounces.  While the President talks about how he won't take "special interest" money, the "special interests" are funding the convention that will be one big party for the President's re-election.  

So if there's any cause for someone to be offended, it's the Obama campaign's never-ending hypocrisy and their willingness to say and do anything--no matter how ridiculous--to get this failed President reelected, even if it hurts the economy in the process. 
