A Second Helping Of Pinocchios For Carney's "BS" 



The saga of White House Press Secretary Jay Carney's fairy tale claims of Obama's " fiscal constraint " and " responsible stewardship " of the nation's finances continues. Today, the author of the original column that spurred Carney's claims said that the White House's  citation of his research  was "disingenuous" and agreed that they deserved the Pinocchios that they were awarded. After Carney attempted to highlight disagreements between fact checkers on the issue, The Washington Post's Glenn Kessler  took another look  and reaffirmed his ruling: "Three Pinocchios." 

The Author Of Column That Carney Touted Says His Claims Are "Disingenuous" And That The White House Deserves Their Pinocchios 

MarketWatch's Rex Nutting Told The Washington Post's Fact Checker: "I Have No Problem With You Assigning Pinocchios To The White House Based On This."  (Glenn Kessler, "The Facts About The Growth Of Spending Under Obama, Part 2,"  The Washington Post's "The Fact Checker,"  5/31/12) Nutting: "[I]t's A Bit Disingenuous Of Them To Tout My Column As Proof Of Their Fiscal Responsibility ..." " The White House clearly does not want all those 2013 spending cuts to take place, so it's a bit disingenuous of them to tout my column as proof of their fiscal responsibility on the one hand, while trying their best to spend more money on the other." (Glenn Kessler, "The Facts About The Growth Of Spending Under Obama, Part 2,"  The Washington Post's "The Fact Checker,"  5/31/12) 

The Washington Post 's Fact Checker Reaffirmed Obama's Three Pinocchios 

The Washington Post's  Fact Checker: "We Reaffirm Our Previous Ruling. Three Pinocchios."  (Glenn Kessler, "The Facts About The Growth Of Spending Under Obama, Part 2,"  The Washington Post's "The Fact Checker,"  5/31/12) The Washington Post's  Fact Checker: Many Of 2009's "Key Spending Decisions Were Actually Made By Obama."  "Obama supported and voted for Bush-started programs such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Moreover, many key appropriations bills were held back by Democrats until Obama became president, and then he pushed through a $830 billion stimulus bill (which consisted of mostly spending). In ordinary times, one could argue that 2009 should be counted as Bush's year, but in fact many of the key spending decisions were actually made by Obama." (Glenn Kessler, "The Facts About The Growth Of Spending Under Obama, Part 2,"  The Washington Post's "The Fact Checker,"  5/31/12)
