Obama's Broken Promise To NALEO 





Senator Obama:  "As President, I'm Looking Forward To Being Back And Addressing You As President Of The United States Of America."  (Senator Barack Obama,  Remarks At National Association Of Latino Elected Officials , Washington, DC, 6/28/08) 

  



Watch Obama's Promise Here 

Obama Skipped NALEO's Annual Conference For The Third Straight Year Despite Promising To Attend As President.  "Leaders of a national Hispanic organization are criticizing President Barack Obama for skipping their annual conference for the third consecutive year after he promised as a candidate in 2008 that he would return as president. Some members of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials also are questioning Obama's commitment to immigration reform, noting that deportations have increased under his watch -- even as the administration intensifies its outreach for Hispanic votes. NALEO, which includes more than 6,000 Latino leaders who represent major blocs of voters in key electoral states, opens its annual conference Thursday in San Antonio." (Julie Mason, "President Obama No-Show Miffs Hispanics,"  Politico ,  6/19/11) NALEO's Executive Director: "It's More Than A Disappointment."  "'It's more than a disappointment,' Vargas told POLITICO. 'I don't get it. I don't think he's given our membership the attention they deserve.'" (Julie Mason, "President Obama No-Show Miffs Hispanics,"  Politico ,  6/19/11) 

Obama Supporter Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) Says He's Not Surprised Obama Is Skipping The Event, Because He Wouldn't Be Able To Blame Republicans For The Lack Of Immigration Reform At NALEO.  "'It is getting harder and harder for the president to go into a venue where he is confronted by Latinos because he is in a jam,' said Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.), one of Obama's earliest Hispanic supporters and a member of NALEO. 'In front of a group like NALEO, blaming Republicans for their intransigence on immigration reform and not addressing what the president's own administration is doing to immigrants would not wash,' said Gutierrez, who traveled with Obama to the 2008 NALEO conference. 'So it isn't surprising to me that the president is not showing up.'" (Julie Mason, "President Obama No-Show Miffs Hispanics,"  Politico ,  6/19/11)
