Yesterday's Market Drop Shows "Real Leadership Is More Than Talking And Calling For Thin 



Yesterday, President Obama went to the teleprompter to calm the stock market. However, his attempt at reassuring the public and investors "fell flat", "failed spectacularly" and "did nothing." Check out the reviews below. As  The Washington Post's  Dana Milbank wrote this morning, "the most powerful man in the world seems strangely powerless, and irresolute." 

Washington Post's Dana Milbank:  "The Most Powerful Man In The World Seems Strangely Powerless, And Irresolute, As Larger Forces Bring Down The Country And His Presidency."  "When he began his speech (and as cable news channels displayed for viewers), the Dow Jones industrials stood at 11,035. As he talked, the average fell below 11,000 for the first time in nine months, en route to a 635-point drop for the day, the worst since the 2008 crash. It's not exactly fair to blame Obama for the rout: Almost certainly, the markets ignored him. And that's the problem: The most powerful man in the world seems strangely powerless, and irresolute, as larger forces bring down the country and his presidency." 

The Washington Post:  "Fell Flat".  "Obama's attempt to reassure the public that the United States "always will be a triple-A country" fell flat, at least with the markets. When Obama started speaking, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down about 410 points. By the time he finished it had dropped further, and it ended the day down 635 points, the largest single-day drop since 2008." 

Politico:  "It Failed Spectacularly."  "If Obama's announcement was intended to soothe panicky markets, it failed spectacularly. Before he spoke, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading down about 400 points, 3.5 percent of its value. By the end of the day it had tanked, finishing with a 633-point loss that represented about 6 percent of its value, the worst single-day performance since the depths of the fiscal crisis." 

USA Today:  "Did Nothing To Calm Jittery Financial Markets".  "Obama s decision to address the issue from the White House after spending the weekend at Camp David did nothing to calm jittery financial markets. The Dow Jones industrial average continued to slide, closing down more than 600 points on the day." 

Los Angeles Times:  "You Kept Waiting For The Point".  "But if you read the full statement, as anyone could right here on The Ticket, you kept waiting for the point, the real rhetorical reason for the remarks. Like a grand restaurant with the most romantic atmosphere, crackling fireplace, flickering candles, exquisite place settings. And with impressive style the waiter proudly serves an empty plate and awaits your awe. Trouble is, real leadership is more than talking and calling for things. It takes a while, but over time listeners begin to notice rote rhetoric, predictable patterns, empty words." 

Washington Times:  "Did Nothing To Console Markets".  "In a panicky day of tumultuous trading on Wall Street, even a pledge by President Obama to double down on efforts this fall to come up with a major debt reduction plan that would satisfy ratings agencies did nothing to console markets."
