DROPPING DEMOCRATS 



Another Democrat Refuses To Support The President 

Yesterday, Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) Was Added To A Group Of Elected Democrat "Fence-Sitters" Who "Haven t Decided Whether To Vote For Obama" 

WECT's Frances Weller:  "This week, national political media is making hay about Democrats who won t openly support President Obama s reelection. Some are going so far as saying they haven t decided whether to vote for Obama or his likely Republican opponent, Mitt Romney. One of those on the list of fence-sitters appears to be our own Congressman, Mike McIntyre. He has not committed publicly on an endorsement yet. So today, WECT.com s Nadine Maeser attempted to get a direct answer from the representative while he visited the area." 

WECT's Nadine Maeser:   "Yeah Fran, this is not what Congressman McIntyre wanted to talk about today with me. Our first stop was a prayer breakfast in Brunswick County. Congressman McIntyre spoke to members of the sheriff s office and the community. But said since the day was about prayer, it wouldn t be right to talk politics."  

McIntyre:  "Well let me say, I'm not doing political interviews today at the prayer event. Wouldn't be appropriate."  

Maeser:   "And later this afternoon we went to a non-prayer event in New Hanover County. The Congressman helped return medals to a gentleman who tried to save astronauts who died in the Apollo One incident in the 1960s. But the Congressman also said it wasn t the right time to talk then. You don't want to comment on your support of Obama or anything?" 

McIntyre:  "No, not today. This is not (inaudible)."  ( WECT , 5/3/12) Watch The Video Here 

McIntyre Is Just The Latest In A String Of Elected Officials Refusing To Support The President's Re-Election 

Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin (D-WV) Doesn't Know If He Will Vote For President Obama In November.  "Democrat Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin said he like Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va. does not know if he will vote for President Barack Obama or Republican Mitt Romney in the fall." (Ry Rivard, "Tomblin Says He's Uncertain Whether He'll Vote For Obama,"  Charleston Daily Mail , 5/2/12) Tomblin Is Concerned About President Obama's "Misguided Policies."  "Tomblin said in statement released by his campaign that he was a 'loyal member of the Democratic Party' but was concerned by fellow Democrat Obama s 'misguided policies.'" (Ry Rivard, "Tomblin Says He's Uncertain Whether He'll Vote For Obama,"  Charleston Daily Mail , 5/2/12) Tomblin: "President Obama Has Apparently Made It His Mission To Drive The Backbone Of West Virginia s Economy, Coal And The Energy Industry, Out Of Business."   "'On the other hand, President Obama has apparently made it his mission to drive the backbone of West Virginia s economy, coal and the energy industry, out of business,' he said. 'That will not only hurt thousands of West Virginia families, it will destroy the economic fabric of our state.'" (Ry Rivard, "Tomblin Says He's Uncertain Whether He'll Vote For Obama,"  Charleston Daily Mail , 5/2/12) 

Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) "I'll Look At The Options."  "'I'll look at the options,' Manchin said this week. The last three years 'have made it pretty rough' for his state, he said." (Dan Friedman, "Manchin On The Fence About Obama Vote,"  National Journal , 4/19/12) Manchin:   "Right Now In West Virginia, These First Three And A Half Years Haven't Been That Good To West Virginia."  'The people in West Virginia, they basically look at the candidates--whatever you're running for, whether it be the president itself, or whatever--[they look at] the performance and the result that's been attained,' Manchin said when asked how he will vote. 'Right now in West Virginia, these first three and a half years haven't been that good to West Virginia. So, then you look [at] what the options will be, who will be on the other end.'" (Dan Friedman, "Manchin On The Fence About Obama Vote,"  National Journal , 4/19/12) 

Lifelong Democrat And Democratic Mayor From King's Mountain, North Carolina Switched Parties.  "Mayor Rick Murphrey's views on tax policy, the national debt and social issues like same-sex marriage have led the lifelong Democrat to switch his party affiliation to Republican. Murphrey and his wife, Sandra, filed new voter registration forms on Wednesday, Cleveland County Deputy Elections Director Meloni Wray confirmed. The seven-term mayor said his conservative political views more closely match those of the Republican Party." (Corey Friedman, "Lifelong Democratic Mayor Joins Republican Party,"  The Shelby Star , 4/19/12) Mayor Rick Murphrey:  "'As we look at both parties and focus on the upcoming election, we want to be in a party that is focused on reducing the national debt and that is lowering corporate taxes so industries can invest in machinery, expand and create more jobs,' Murphrey said. Murphrey became a Democrat when he first registered to vote at age 18. He said he and his wife discussed their views and both decided to switch parties. 'It's something that we've been talking about for a long time, and we've made our decision,' Murphrey said. 'It's for life. It's not just for one election.'" (Corey Friedman, "Lifelong Democratic Mayor Joins Republican Party," The Shelby Star , 4/19/12)
