Ooops...FW: They won't even vote on it 



Good afternoon, just minutes after Senator Harry Reid blocked a REPUBLICAN motion to vote on Obama's jobs bill in the Senate, Team Obama blasted an email entitled "they won't even vote on it," showing yet again that Obama is more interested in scoring political points and campaigning for his job than he is in creating jobs for the rest of the country. 

@SamYoungman:  bad timing for an email from Messina reading They won t even vote on it. 



From:  Jim Messina, BarackObama.com   info@barackobama.com 

Date: Tue, Oct 4, 2011 at 3:02 PM 

Subject: They won t even vote on it 

  

Friend 

President Obama is in Dallas today urging Americans who support the American Jobs Act to demand that Congress pass it already. 

Though it s been nearly a month since he laid out this plan, House Republicans haven t acted to pass it. And House Majority Leader Eric Cantor is out there actually bragging that they won t even put the jobs package up for a vote ever. 

It s not clear which part of the bill they now object to: building roads, hiring teachers, getting veterans back to work. They re willing to block the American Jobs Act and they think you won t do anything about it. 

But here s something you can do: Find Republican members of Congress on Twitter, call them out, and demand they pass this bill. 

Be the first to use our new tool and tweet for jobs. 

Here s why we built this new tool, and why it s important. 

If you ve written letters or sent email to Congress before, you know it can be a frustrating experience sometimes it takes them weeks to respond, and sometimes they don t respond at all. 

But many members of Congress personally receive the messages sent to them on Twitter, so you have a better chance of getting your message directly to them. 

And even if they don t respond, your message will be public front and center for everyone who follows you or your representative. That means their staff, other constituents, and the media will see the mounting pressure. 

So tweet for jobs now: 

http://my.barackobama.com/Tweet-for-Jobs 

If you don t use Twitter, you can also contact someone else who needs to hear from you about this bill: The editor of your local paper. We have a tool that lets you send a letter to the editor, and even gives you facts and tips to help you write the most effective note you can.  Write one now: 

http://my.barackobama.com/Letters-for-Jobs 

The American Jobs Act is not controversial legislation. 

Ideas like rebuilding our roads and bridges, repairing our public schools, and keeping teachers in our classrooms are all ideas the Republicans have said they would support or have even proposed themselves. 

But they re so dead set on preventing anything from getting done on President Obama s watch that they will reverse, deny, or ignore what they ve said and done in the past even if it costs more American jobs. 

And remember: They re willing to cost you and any other American your job, or your chance at a new job, because they think that doing nothing won t cost them theirs. Tweet at Republican members of Congress now and tell them you want a vote on the jobs bill right away: 

http://my.barackobama.com/Tweet-for-Jobs 

Or write a letter to the editor: 

http://my.barackobama.com/Letters-for-Jobs 

I know we ve been asking a lot of you lately, and all of us here would have loved to give you a break this week after all the emails we ve been sending. But the reality is that we re building a grassroots organization from the ground up even as we re supporting the President in battles that need to be won right now. And that means we ve got to be willing to stay focused week after week from now through the election. 

Thanks again to all of you who donated to the campaign before the end of the third quarter, and for everything else you do to have the President s back. 

Thanks, 

Messina 

Jim Messina 

Campaign Manager 

Obama for America
