Weekend Messaging Memo 



MEMO 

FROM: Sean Spicer, RNC Communications Director 

TO: Interested Parties 

RE: Weekend Messaging Memo 



In an interview this week, a presumptuous President Obama said he has "another five years coming up" in the White House. That, of course, would be news to voters. 

Obama really shouldn't start making plans for another inaugural ball. While he is out making promises for his second term, voters are still waiting for him to fulfill the promises of his first. 

For the last three years, the president has failed to lead on the important issues of the day. Now, instead of admitting failure, he's promising he'll deal with it all in a second term. 

If everything has to wait for a second term, what was the first term for? 

Obama has followed a striking pattern on issue after issue. First, make a campaign promise to solve an urgent problem. Next, spend three years ignoring the problem. Finally, make an election year promise to solve the same urgent problem. 

On jobs, housing, student loans, deficits, and more, the president has followed this same disingenuous pattern. 

Now, with gas prices rising, he's at it again. 

On Thursday, the president gave a speech on energy before heading off to his 93rd, 94th, and 95th campaign fundraisers. He said that a successful energy policy needs "serious, sustained commitment," adding, "That's what this moment requires." 

But four years ago in 2008, he  declared , "As president, I will work to solve this energy crisis once and for all." 

So, where was that "sustained commitment" the last three years? Nowhere. Last year, Obama called his own energy policy "just a hodgepodge." NBC News' Chuck Todd  said  Thursday, "No issue has been ... a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general." 

See the pattern: Campaign  promise , three years of inaction, same old promise. 

Of course, the president could not get through his speech without taking a few jabs at political opponents. He noted that oil production was up under his administration, and he argued that oil drilling was no "silver bullet." 

Hold on.  First, oil production is up despite Obama's actions--not because of them. We're reaping the benefits of production on private land and areas that President Bush opened up for energy development. As Fox News  reported , Barack Obama later closed those federal areas. Only now is he changing his tune.  

The president likes to talk about things he inherited from the last administration; higher oil production is one of them. 

Second, we agree that there is no "silver bullet." And we agree that an energy policy needs "serious, sustained commitment." Many of the policies that would lead to lower energy costs take time.  

We had time. Obama blew it. He spent the last three years mocking oil production, wasting money on bankrupt  endeavors   like   Solyndra , and blocking projects like  Keystone . He has no one to blame but himself. 

Voters can see through the president's disingenuousness. Empty  promises  won't work the second time around. The RNC will continue to hold him accountable to his own words and his own standards from now until Election Day. 

We'll highlight his failures, as we did with  this ad  on Thursday, and we'll call him out when he tries to cast the blame elsewhere. 

With a record like his, he's certainly not going to get those "five years." 



###
