The AIG DAG 







"The Senate Meets At 10 A.M. And Will Consider The Nominations Of James Cole To Be Deputy Attorney General ..."  (Pete Kasperowicz, "Tuesday: Attorney general nominations in the Senate,"  The Hill , 6/28/11) 

  

COLE WAS IN CHARGE OF OVERSEEING AIG'S FINANCIAL REPORTING 



Cole Was Appointed As Independent Consultant To AIG, Overseeing "[I]ts Corporate Compliance And Financial Disclosure Policies..."  (James Cole Profile,  Bryan Cave , Accessed on 6/08/10) 

Part Of Cole's Job At AIG "Was To Investigate Financial Transactions" Structured By AIG's Financial-Products Group, Which Created "Billions Of Dollars In Credit-Default-Swap Contracts That Turned Sour."  "His original assignment, which began in January 2005, was to investigate financial transactions dating back to 2000 in which AIG helped companies smooth earnings. Some of those transactions were structured by the insurer s financial-products group, the unit that would later write billions of dollars in credit-default-swap contracts that turned sour." (Peter Lattman, "The U.S.'s Fly On The Wall At AIG,"  The Wall Street Journal , 03/27/09) In 2006, Cole's "Responsibilities Broadened" To Examining AIG's "Controls On Financial Reporting" And Corporate Governance.  "His responsibilities broadened in November 2006, after a separate settlement with the SEC and New York state authorities. In that case, AIG paid $1.6 billion to resolve an inquiry into accounting irregularities and bid-rigging allegations. That agreement called for Mr. Cole to examine AIG s controls on financial reporting as well as oversight over corporate governance in areas such as compliance." (Peter Lattman, "The U.S.'s Fly On The Wall At AIG,"  The Wall Street Journal , 03/27/09) 

  

BUT COLE "NEVER NOTICED THAT AIG'S FINANCIAL FOUNDATION WAS CRUMBLING BENEATH HIS FEET" 



While Cole Was Monitoring At AIG, The Company "Dangerously Ramped Up Its Sale Of Credit-Default Swaps."  "During his time at AIG, when his law firm was paid $20 million for its work, the company dangerously ramped up its sale of credit-default swaps (essentially insurance) to investment banks through its AIG-FP division, essentially betting big that the housing market wouldn t collapse." (Marcus Braram, "James Cole, Key Obama Nominee, Shot Down By Senate Republicans,"  The Huffington Post,  5 /10/11) 

The Director Of The Government Accountability Project: Cole "Abdicated Having Any Oversight" Of AIG.  "The Government Accountability Project s International Reform Director, Bea Edwards, has written numerous blog posts about Cole s nomination and his role at AIG. On his watch, 'everything went bad at AIG-FP in London,' Edwards said. 'He had every latitude to insure compliance of AIG with accepted accounting procedures and he abdicated having any oversight of AIG-FP.'" (Marcus Braram, "James Cole, Key Obama Nominee, Shot Down By Senate Republicans,"  The Huffington Post,  5 /10/11) 

At AIG "It's As Though Cole Were Spackling Cracks In The Compliance Walls And Never Noticed That AIG's Financial Foundation Was Crumbling Beneath His Feet."  "Right under Cole s nose, AIG again undertook high-risk transactions and within the very financial unit that Cole was first appointed to oversee. AIG s high-stakes gamble on credit default swaps not only drove the company to the edge of financial collapse but also helped to undermine the nation s and the world s economic stability.... They say Cole filed periodic reports with federal agencies and sculpted a nice compliance model. Problem is, the model just didn t work for AIG. It s as though Cole were spackling cracks in the compliance walls and never noticed that AIG s financial foundation was crumbling beneath his feet. Part of any good compliance program, says one attorney and ex-monitor, who asked not to be named, is accurately assessing a company s risk. Cole s plan apparently didn t." (Sue Reisinger, "AIG's Federal Monitor Failed To Curtail Bad Behavior. Is It Time To Reexamine The Program?"  Law.com Corporate Counsel , 07/01/09) Cole "Should Have Been More Attentive To Possible Financial Misdeeds And Highly Risky Deals."  "Critics say Cole, who has been picked for a critical DOJ job that requires a kind of radar to detect issues might prove troublesome, should have been more attentive to possible financial misdeeds and highly risky deals." (Ryan Reilly, "Cole's AIG Tie A Very Risky Asset,"  Main Justice , 06/02/10) 

Former AIG Employee: "He Was Our Last, Great Hope  If He Had Done His Job, Maybe He Couldn t Have Stopped The Meltdown But At Least He Would Have Been Able To Raise The Alarms And Get Some Attention To What Was Happening,  (Marcus Braram, "James Cole, Key Obama Nominee, Shot Down By Senate Republicans,"  The Huffington Post,  5 /10/11) 

  

SO WHAT ELSE IS ON COLE'S RESUME? 

  

FROM 2003 TO 2007, HE DEFENDED SAUDI PRINCE FROM 9/11 VICTIMS 



Cole "[R]epresented Saudi Prince Naif Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud After Insurance Carriers And Sept. 11 Survivors Tried To Sue The Prince And Others, Claiming They Had A Role In Financing Terrorists."  (David Ingram, "Bryan Cave's James Cole To Be Nominated Deputy Attorney General,"  BLT - The Legal Times , 5/21/10) Cole Represented Prince Naif From 2003 to 2007.  "From 2003 to 2007, I represented Prince Nayef, the Minister of the Interior of Saudi Arabia, in multi-district litigation brought by individual victims of September 11. The Court granted my client's Rule 12 motion to dismiss" (James Cole, "Public Questionnaire,"  Senate Judiciary Committee ) 

  

COLE ALSO CALLED 9/11 MERELY "CRIMINAL ACTS" NOT ACTS OF WAR 



Cole Argued That "The Sept. 11 Attacks Were Criminal Acts" And That Those Responsible Should Be "Tried And Convicted Under Our Criminal Justice System."  "But the attorney general is not a member of the military fighting a war he is a prosecutor fighting crime. For all the rhetoric about war, the Sept. 11 attacks were criminal acts of terrorism against a civilian population, much like the terrorist acts of Timothy McVeigh in blowing up the federal building in Oklahoma City, or of Omar Abdel-Rahman in the first effort to blow up the World Trade Center. The criminals responsible for these horrible acts were successfully tried and convicted under our criminal justice system, without the need for special procedures that altered traditional due process rights." (James Cole, "A Prosecutor Must Protect Rights Of All," The Legal Times, Volume 25; Issue 35, 09/09/02) Cole Compared The 9/11 Terrorist Acts To Other "Crime" Including The "Drug Trade" And "Organized Crime."  "Our country has faced many forms of devastating crime, including the scourge of the drug trade, the reign of organized crime, and countless acts of rape, child abuse, and murder. The acts of Sept. 11 were horrible, but so are these other things." (James Cole, "A Prosecutor Must Protect Rights Of All," The Legal Times, Volume 25; Issue 35, 09/09/02) 

Cole Suggested Constitutional Rights Be Extended To Terrorists, Since The Laws "Must Be Applied To Everyone To Be Effective."  "Because of this, we must rely on the prosecutors to watch out for the rights of everyone, including those they seek to punish.  The attorney general justifies much of his agenda by pointing to the 'war on terrorism' and saying that it is an extreme situation that calls for extreme actions. But too much danger lies down that road.  The protections build into our criminal justice system are there not merely to protect the guilty but, more importantly, to protect the innocent.  They must be applied to everyone to be effective .   What are we fighting for it, in the name of protecting the principles that have raised this nation to the pinnacle of civilization, we abandon those very principles?"  (James Cole, "A Prosecutor Must Protect Rights Of All," The Legal Times, Volume 25; Issue 35, 09/09/02)
