A Surprising Amount Of Battleground States Have Been Granted ObamaCare Waivers 





The 2012 Battleground States Of New Hampshire, Nevada, Iowa And Wisconsin Are Among Seven States That Have Received A Waiver From ObamaCare.  "To date, HHS has granted waivers to seven states: Maine, New Hampshire, Kentucky, Nevada, Iowa, Georgia and Wisconsin. The department has denied them to Delaware and North Dakota.   (Julian Pecquet, "Obama Administration Rejects Republican States' Health Law Waiver Requests,"  The Hill's  " Health Watch ," 11/28/11) 

No Battleground State Has Been Denied An ObamaCare Waiver.  "The Department of Health and Human Services has denied Indiana's and Louisiana's requests for temporary relief from health reform's medical loss ratio requirements, making them the third and fourth states to have their applications rejected outright. The states join North Dakota and Delaware as those rebuffed in waiver requests." (Jason Milman, "Indiana, Louisiana Health Waivers Nixed,"  Politico , 11/28/11) "Michigan, Which Has Backed The Democratic Candidate In The Last Five Presidential Elections, Is Among The 12 Swing States Likely To Determine The Outcome Next Year. The Others Are Florida, North Carolina And Virginia In The South; Colorado, Nevada And New Mexico In The Mountain West; Iowa, Ohio And Wisconsin In The Midwest; And New Hampshire And Pennsylvania In The Northeast."  (Susan Page, "Swing States Poll: Obama's Path To 2 nd  Term An Uphill Climb,"  USA Today , 11/5/11) 

Currently, The Obama Administration Is Reviewing Waiver Requests From Six States Of Which Three Are Considered Battleground States.  "The department is currently reviewing applications from six other states: Florida, Kansas, Michigan, Texas, Oklahoma and North Carolina." (Julian Pecquet, "Obama Administration Rejects Republican States' Health Law Waiver Requests,"  The Hill's  " Health Watch ," 11/28/11) 

Despite Obama's Promise, Hoosiers Won't Be Able to Keep Their Plan 

President Obama Promised That "If You Like Your Health Care Plan, You Will Be Able To Keep Your Health Care Plan. Period. No One Will Take It Away. No Matter What."  (President Barack Obama,  Address To The American Medical Association,  Chicago, IL, 6/15/09) 

Several Insurance Companies Have Recently Withdrawn From The Individual Health Insurance Market In Indiana.  "Hartford-based Aetna Inc. and Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp., which are the third- and fifth-largest health insurers respectively, have announced their departure from Indiana's individual health insurance market."   (J.K. Wall, "Five Individual Insurers Leaving Indiana,"  Indianapolis Business Journal , 8/8/11) Blaming The Medical Loss Ratio Mandate For Their Exit From The Indiana Health Insurance Marketplace.  "Their major complaint is about the new health law's requirement that at least 80 percent of premiums be spent on medical bills. That new rule, known formally as a medical loss ratio or MLR, takes effect this year for all individual policies the insurers hold, not just new policies." (J.K. Wall, "Five Individual Insurers Leaving Indiana,"  Indianapolis Business Journal , 8/8/11) 

Over 20,000 Hoosiers Will Lose Their Current Health Care Coverage Since Indiana Was Denied A Waiver.  "In addition, Illinois-based Pekin Insurance, Michigan-based American Community Mutual Insurance Co. and New York-based Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America also have decided to leave the individual market. The five companies covered more than 20,000 Hoosiers, or about 10 percent of all those who have individual health insurance." (J.K. Wall, "Five Individual Insurers Leaving Indiana,"  Indianapolis Business Journal , 8/8/11)
