Obama's "Burden Of Medical Bills" Promise Broken 



PROMISE: In 2010, Obama Tried To Sell ObamaCare By Focusing On Those Who Have "The Added Burden Of Medical Bills They Can't Pay."  OBAMA: I m here because of the countless others who have been forced to face the most terrifying challenges in their lives with the added burden of medical bills they can t pay. I don t think that s right. (President Barack Obama, Remarks On Health Insurance Reform, Strongsville, OH, 3/15/10) 

BROKEN: Nearly Two Years After ObamaCare Was Enacted, A Government Study Found That More Americans Are Struggling To Pay Their Medical Bills Due To The High Cost Of Health Care. "While politicians and soon, the Supreme Court, are fighting about the fate of the Affordable Care Act, a new government study finds that a growing number of Americans are having difficulty coping with the high cost of health care." (Julie Rovner, "1 In 3 Americans Is Having A Hard Time Paying Medical Bills,"  NPR , 3/7/12) Those Numbers Are Worse Than Previous Studies.  "Earlier studies had shown that 1 in 5 Americans had trouble paying his medical bills. But this study is larger and asked questions -- such as whether people are paying medical bills over time -- that researchers have not asked previously." (Julie Rovner, "1 In 3 Americans Is Having A Hard Time Paying Medical Bills,"  NPR , 3/7/12) 

Centers For Disease Control And Prevention Found That "1 In 3 People Lived In A Family That Had Trouble Paying Its Medical Bills."  "During the first six months of 2011, 1 in 3 people lived in a family that had trouble paying its medical bills within the previous year; was currently paying a medical bill over time; or currently had a medical bill the family was unable to pay at all. That s according to a survey of more than 50,000 people by the National Center for Health Statistics, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention." (Julie Rovner, "1 In 3 Americans Is Having A Hard Time Paying Medical Bills,"  NPR , 3/7/12) 

ObamaCare Is The Culprit 

Factcheck.org: ObamaCare "Falls Short Of Making Health Care 'Affordable And Available To Every Single American,' As Promised."  "Furthermore, the law falls short of making health care 'affordable and available to every single American,' as promised. The law provides subsidies to help some Americans buy insurance, expands Medicaid and doesn't allow insurance companies to exclude persons with preexisting conditions. But still, the director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projected 23 million persons will remain uninsured -- some because they can't afford coverage." (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," Factcheck.org , 1/4/12) Factcheck.org: ObamaCare Is Actually Making Health Care "Less Affordable."  "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made -- that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises,"  Factcheck.org , 1/4/12) 

"The Cost Of Health Insurance For Many Americans This Year Climbed More Sharply Than In Previous Years, Outstripping Any Growth In Workers' Wages And Adding More Uncertainty About The Pace Of Rising Medical Costs."  (Reed Abelson, "U.S. Health Insurance Cost Rises Sharply, Study Finds,"  The New York Times , 9/27/11) 

Kaiser Study Found That Costs Of Family Coverage "Climbed" 9 Percent In 2011.  "The average cost of a family policy climbed 9 percent in 2011 to $15,073, according to a poll of 2,088 private companies and state and local government agencies by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation in Menlo Park, California, and the Chicago- based American Hospital Association's Health Research and Educational Trust." (Jeffrey Young, "Health-Benefit Costs Rise Most In Six Years,"  Bloomberg , 9/27/11)
