VIRGINIA UTILITY COMPANIES ARE FEELING THE HEAT 



EPA's Costly And Burdensome Regulations Are Leaving Virginia Companies Confused 

"Unprecedented" New EPA Rules Are "Most Expensive" In The Agency's History.  "The EPA is currently pushing an unprecedented rewrite of air-pollution rules in an attempt to shut down a large portion of the coal-fired power fleet. Though these regulations are among the most expensive in the agency's history, none were demanded by the late Pelosi Congress. They're all the result of purely bureaucratic discretion under the Clean Air Act, last revised in 1990." (Editorial, "An EPA Moratorium,"  The Wall Street Journal , 8/29/11) The EPA "Firehose" Of Regulations Increase Direct Costs To Utilities, Force Plant Closures And Lead To Job Losses And Higher Prices For Consumers.  "A utility, for instance, might be able to comply with a single new rule, but under the EPA firehose it might be forced to retire some of its operations.  Beyond the direct costs to the utility, plant closures would lead to job losses and higher prices for consumers and business, with their own knock-on effects." (Editorial, "The Cost Of Lisa Jackson,"  The Wall Street Journal , 8/3/11) "This Cluster Of Overlapping Rules Will Cause Far More Cumulative Damage Than Merely One Or Another Rule Would By Itself."  (Editorial, "The Cost Of Lisa Jackson,"  The Wall Street Journal , 8/3/11) 

Southwest Virginia's "Largest Employers Are Simply Cross-Eyed And Confused" About EPA Regulations.  "It could be costly and complicated, and it could curtail business. But mostly, some of the region s largest employers are simply cross-eyed and confused about what pending federal pollution mandates will mean for doing business in Southwest Virginia." (Annie Johnson, "Seeking Clarity On Pollution Rules,"  Blue Ridge Business Journal , 1/20/12) Southwest Virginia Businesses Say EPA Has Been "Unclear" About Specific Impact Of Regulations.  "But the depth and the breadth of that effect and its relative cost to consumers hasn t yet been calculated by a sampling of regional firms. That s because those companies feel the EPA has been unclear about how several rules including the so-called 'tailoring rule,' which would exclude small companies from compliance will be implemented and enforced." (Annie Johnson, "Seeking Clarity On Pollution Rules,"  Blue Ridge Business Journal , 1/20/12) 

Appalachian Power Said EPA Regulations Will Likely Lead To The Shuttering Of Plants In Giles And Washington, VA.  "Appalachian operates two coal-fired power plants in Virginia. Mallan said that the tailoring rule, as well as other proposed regulations, could negatively affect rates, permitting processes and company profits. He said some changes could potentially mean the shuttering of the plants in Giles and Washington counties and a sharp uptick in customers bills."  (Annie Johnson, "Seeking Clarity On Pollution Rules,"  Blue Ridge Business Journal , 1/20/12) 

After Spending $2 Billion From 2006-2010 To Comply With Clean Air Mandates, AEP Fears Mercury Rule "Could Result In A Loss Of Up To 19 Percent Of Fossil Fuel-Fired Steam Capacity."  "Potentially even worse for some firms are pending regulations related to National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants. These regulations would direct power plants to reduce their emissions of air toxins, including mercury, according to Russell Bailey, a Roanoke-based consultant with Trinity, an environmental consulting company that specializes in industrial air quality issues. Some think the rule also would include acid gases, heavy metals and organics for coal- and oil-fired plants, according to the North American Electric Utility Reliability Corp., which said last month that the combined impact of a handful of EPA rules could result in a loss of up to 19 percent of fossil fuel-fired steam capacity. AEP spent $2 billion between 2006 and 2010 to comply with clean air mandates, according to Todd Burns, a spokesman for Appalachian." (Annie Johnson, "Seeking Clarity On Pollution Rules,"  Blue Ridge Business Journal , 1/20/12)
