Warren Buffett Takes Issue With Obama Policies 



Today, Obama travels to Florida where he will speak about the Buffett Rule. But Buffett, one of Obama's favorite names to drop, has been vocal in his opposition to several of Obama's policies. Perhaps, Obama should check Warren Buffett's stances on these issues first. 

Buffett: "What Happened With Simpson-Bowles Was An Absolute Tragedy" 

Buffett:  " I Think What Happened With Simpson-Bowles Was An Absolute Tragedy."  BUFFETT: "Well it - you go back to what, you know, Kemp-Roth and all that that too that they were working on that. I think what happened with Simpson-Bowles was an absolute tragedy. I mean here are two extremely high-grade people. They have somewhat different ideas about government but they re smart. They re decent. They've got good senses of humor, too. They re good at working with people. They work like a devil for ten months or something like that. They compromise. They bring in people as far apart as Durbin and Coburn to get them to sign on and then they re totally ignored. I think that s a travesty." (CNBC's  "Squawk Box,"  11/12/11) 

Buffett Opposes Cap-And-Trade 

Buffett Said Cap-And-Trade Is A National Energy Tax That Will Hurt Poor Americans.  BUFFETT: "I   think if you get into the way it was written, it's a huge tax and there's no sense calling it anything else.  I mean, it is a tax.  And it's a fairly regressive tax.  If we buy permits, essentially, at our utilities, that goes right into the bills of the utility customers and an awful lot of people in Iowa, in Oregon, and Utah, and places where we are, very poor people are going to pay a lot more money for electricity " (CNBC's " Power Lunch ," 6/24/09) 

Buffett Criticized ObamaCare For Not Addressing the Cost Of Healthcare And Said He Would Scrap It 

Buffett : "We Came Up With A Bill That Really Doesn t Attack The Cost Situation That Much."  BUFFETT: "So we have a health system that, in terms of costs, is really out of control. And if you take this line and you project what has been happening into the future, we will get less and less competitive. So we need something else. Unfortunately, we came up with a bill that really doesn t attack the cost situation that much. And we have to have a fundamental change. We have to have something that will end the constant increase in medical costs as a percentage of GDP." (CNBC's " Squawk On The Street ," 3/1/10) 

Buffett Said He Would Have Scrapped ObamaCare.  CNBC'S BECKY QUICK: "Then are you in favor of scrapping this and going back to start over?" WARREN BUFFETT: "I would be if I were President Obama, I would just show this chart of what s been happening and say this is the tapeworm that s eating at American competitiveness. And I would say that one way or another, we re going to attack costs, costs, costs, just like they talk about jobs, jobs, jobs in the (unintelligible). It s cost, cost, cost on this side.'" (CNBC's " Squawk On The Street ," 3/1/10)
