Harry Reid vs. Harry Reid 



What a difference a day makes - one day after acknowledging that the Democrats' latest political stunt had nothing to do with easing skyrocketing gas prices, the Democrat Majority Leader has changed his tune.  Why? Probably because he realized that if their latest dog pony show didn't actually address the concerns of consumers, it would be pretty much...well...pointless. 

Harry Reid vs. Harry Reid 

YESTERDAY:   Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV): "So This Is A Question Of Fairness And A Question Of Priorities. Certainly A Question Of Economics. But It Is Not A Question Of Gas Prices." (Sen. Harry Reid, Remarks On The U.S. Senate Floor, Washington D.C., 5/16/11) 

TODAY:  "We have to do something about the exorbitant gas prices, and the best way to start with that is to do something about the five big oil companies getting subsidies they don t need," Reid said on the Senate floor Tuesday morning." (Josiah Ryan, "In lead up to vote, Reid argues oil bill could lower gas prices,"  The Hill , 5/17/11) 

But Many Senate Dems Aren't Buying The Talking Points... 

Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA) Said That The Democrats Attempt To Raise Energy Taxes "Will Not Reduce Gasoline Prices One Penny."  LANDRIEU: "But I would just like to add my strong voice to urging my colleagues to read this bill, to look at it, and understand the inherent unfairness in it, the lack of significant deficit reduction, and the fact that it will not, although it is being touted as,  it will not reduce gasoline prices by one penny ." (Sen. Mary Landrieu, Remarks On The U.S. Senate Floor, Washington D.C., 5/11/11) 

Sen. Mark Begich (D-AK) Called On Fellow Democrats To "Stop The Headline Grabbing And Get Serious About Energy Security."  SEN. BEGICH: "Sadly, some of my colleagues in this body are not much better. Instead of addressing the problem with specific solutions, they are going for headlines by dragging energy company executives before committees or proposing that roadblock incentives for increased domestic energy production, some of which have been on the books for decade. Let s stop the headline grabbing and get serious about the energy security." (Sen. Mark Begich, Remarks On The U.S. Senate Floor, Washington D.C., 5/11/11)  

Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY):"This was never intended to talk about lowering prices."  ( CNN 's "The Situation Room," 5/11/11) 

Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT): "You know, this is not going to change the price at the gasoline pump. That's not the issue.  I don't see that as an issue at all. The issue i see is who shares."  (U.S. Senate, Remarks During Senate Finance Committee Hearing, 5/12/11) 

Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI):   "Nearly every independent analyst and even some from the oil industry itself tells us that this proposal will not alter the economic fundamentals that determine gasoline prices."  (Sen. Carl Levin, Remarks On The U.S. Senate Floor, Washington D.C., 5/16/11)
