Weekend Memo- The Campaigner-in-Chief 



 MEMO 

FROM: Sean Spicer, RNC Communications Director 

TO: Interested Parties 

RE: Weekend Messaging Memo - The Campaigner-in-Chief 



Wonder what happens when a president stops governing? Look around. 

Three weeks into the new year, over 290 days till the election, the president has gone into full-time campaign mode. 

Yesterday's agenda: Visit Disney World  Fundraise at a swanky Manhattan restaurant Fundraise (a second time) at swanky Manhattan restaurant Fundraise at Spike Lee's house Fundraise at the Apollo Theater 



Next week's agenda: Campaign in Iowa Campaign in Nevada Campaign in Colorado Campaign in Michigan Campaign in Arizona 

And, finally, he's up with a defensive campaign ad in multiple battleground states. (Ironically, the ad, which tries to defend Obama's ethical lapses, grossly misrepresents its own sources. For more on Obama's countless ethical failings, see Chairman Priebus'  op-ed , "The Ethics of Audacity.") 

The message from the White House here is two-fold. First, Barack Obama is desperate to keep his job--at all costs.  

Second, he knows he has a failed record. A good record could speak for itself. But a bad record must be covered up. So, the president is doing an awful lot of speaking lately. 

Meanwhile, the campaign has effectively taken over his administration. See:  Keystone Pipeline . 

Terrified of alienating his vocal, liberal base, Obama sacrificed 20,000 jobs and affordable, secure energy. The pipeline had bipartisan support, union support, Canadian support, and, judging by the outcry from America's newspapers, widespread support from the country's editorial boards. 

By axing the Keystone project, the president now can rightly claim he's a job creator--in China. 

Americans lose the chance for jobs and economic growth. Obama wins donations and left-wing supporters. The campaigner-in-chief has made his priorities clear. 

This week, the RNC launched  Ottack2012.com  to highlight the president's desperate campaign tactics. Earlier, we launched  FailedPromise.com  to document the president's top 10 broken promises. Next week, we'll continue holding the president accountable for his hypocrisy, his broken promises, and his non-stop campaigning on multiple media fronts. Stay tuned. 

Also next week, the president will give his State of the Union address. But America doesn't need another speech from the president to tell us what we already know: after three years of the Obama agenda, the state of our union is weak, fractured, and distressing. 

And the president has given up on fixing it. 

It's time for a new direction. 

###
