Democrats' Extreme Rhetoric 



Back In April, Schumer Gave Democrats Their Marching Orders: Do Anything To Paint Republicans As Extreme 

Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) Was Caught Ordering His Fellow Democrats On A Conference Call To Call Republicans "Extreme" Instead Of Working In Good Faith To Pass A Budget.  "After thanking his colleagues ... for doing the budget bidding for the Senate Democrats, who are facing off against the House Republicans over how to cut spending for the rest of the fiscal year, Mr. Schumer told them to portray John Boehner of Ohio, the Speaker of the House, as painted into a box by the Tea Party, and to decry the spending cuts that he wants as extreme. 'I always use the word extreme,' Mr. Schumer said, 'That is what the caucus instructed me to use this week.'" (Jennifer Steinhauer, "On A Senate Call, A Glimpse Of Marching Orders,"  The New York Times' "The Caucus" Blog , 3/29/11) Listen To Schumer Give Marching Orders 

But  Yesterday, Democrats Took Schumer's Orders To New Levels Of Unseemliness 

Biden Said Tea Party Republicans "Acted Like Terrorists."  "Vice President Joe Biden joined House Democrats in lashing tea party Republicans Monday, accusing them of having "acted like terrorists" in the fight over raising the nation's debt limit." (Jonathan Allen And John Bresnahan, "Biden: Tea Partiers Like Terrorists, " Politico ,  8/1/11) "Biden Told Democratic Lawmakers That The Deal Would Take Away The Tea Party's 'Weapon Of Mass Destruction' -- The Threat Of A Default On U.S. Debt Obligations."  (Jonathan Allen And John Bresnahan, "Biden: Tea Partiers Like Terrorists, "  Politico ,  8/1/11) 



Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA): "We Have Negotiated With Terrorists."  "Biden was agreeing with a line of argument made by Rep. Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) at a two-hour, closed-door Democratic Caucus meeting. 'We have negotiated with terrorists,' an angry Doyle said, according to sources in the room. 'This small group of terrorists have made it impossible to spend any money.'" (Jonathan Allen And John Bresnahan, "Biden: Tea Partiers Like Terrorists, "  Politico ,  8/1/11) 

Rep. Louis Gutierrez (D-IL) Of Republicans: "The Arsonists Must Be Stopped."  "Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) compared Tea Party Republicans to arsonists who were willing to 'slash and burn' to make a political point. 'The Tea Partiers and the GOP have made their slash and burn lunacy clear, and while I do not love this compromise, my vote is a hose to stop the burning. The arsonists must be stopped,' Gutierrez said in a statement on Monday." (Daniel Strauss, "Dem Lawmaker Compares Tea Party Members To 'Arsonists,'"  The Hill's  " Blog Briefing Room ," 8/1/11) 

Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO):  "This deal is a sugar-coated satan sandwich. If you lift the bun, you will not like what you see." (Rep. Emanuel Cleaver,  Twitter Feed , 8/1/11) Watch Cleaver Call The Deal "A Sugar-Coated Satan Sandwich"   



Pelosi Agreed With Rep.  Cleaver That The Deal Is A "Satan Sandwich" And Added "With Some Satan Fries On The Side."  "In an interview with ABC News Diane Sawyer, Pelosi said she will 'absolutely' vote yes on the compromise package, even though she agreed with one colleagues characterization of it as a 'Satan sandwich.' 'It probably is - with some Satan fries on the side,' Pelosi said." (Devin Dwyer, "Nancy Pelosi Absolutely Voting Yes on Debt Ceiling Deal Despite Drawbacks,"  ABC News ,  8/1/11)
