Stimulus Watch: Squandering Taxpayer Money 





The EPA Is Sending Money Overseas To Promote Environmental Regulations - In China! 

The EPA Sent $27 Million Of Stimulus Funds To China To Help Them Comply With International Air Pollution Treaties. "China and other foreign interests have been significant beneficiaries of stimulus money through the Environmental Protection Agency, to the tune of some $27 million, since the law passed in February 2009. Congressional investigators with the House Energy and Commerce Committee found that the EPA engaged in practices such as giving a $718,000 grant to the China State Environment Protection Administration to help it comply with the Stockholm and Long Range Transport of Air Pollutants Convention among others." (John Rossomando, "EPA Stimulating Environmental Regulations Abroad," The Daily Caller , 7/7/11) 

The EPA Also Gave A Stimulus Grant To Interpol To Help Investigate Fraud In Carbon Trading Markets. "The EPA also gave a $150,000 grant to Interpol, the international police organization made famous in countless old movies, in 'support of a climate-change project which will ensure that markets operate properly, and that fraud is detected promptly with regard to carbon trading.'" (John Rossomando, "EPA Stimulating Environmental Regulations Abroad," The Daily Caller , 7/7/11) 

$1.5 Million To Be Sent To Indonesia To Discourage Air Pollution. "But a 5-year, $1.5 million project known as 'Breath Easy Jakarta,' which intends to help implement the city of Jakarta, Indonesia implement air-pollution prevention has raised the ire of House Republicans led by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton. The EPA announced the 'Breathe Jakarta' program in February 2010 at a meeting between EPA Assistant Administrator Michelle DePass and the governor of Jakarta, and the administration has already pledged an initial investment of $250,000, according to an EPA request for proposal from earlier this year." (John Rossomando, "EPA Stimulating Environmental Regulations Abroad," The Daily Caller , 7/7/11) 

Even Stimulus Funds Which Have Remained In America Are Being Misspent: 

Stimulus Funds "Aimed At Lowering The Utility Bills Of Disabled, Poor And Older Americans" Went To Lobbyists Instead. "Federal audits are turning up misspent taxpayer dollars in a $5 billion stimulus program aimed at lowering the utility bills of disabled, poor and older Americans by making their homes more energy-efficient. In West Virginia, which received $38 million in weatherization funds, some of the money went for lobbying, to consultants who did little work and to recipients with connections to state officials who are doling out the funds, the Energy Department's inspector general found." (Evan Bush, "Stimulus Funds For W. Virginia s Handicapped And Poor Instead Goes For Lobbying, Consulting," iWatch , 7/7/11) "In One Case, West Virginia Paid $25,000 To A Lawyer For Writing Two Sentences Stating That Weatherization Contracts Had Been Reviewed..." (Evan Bush, "Stimulus Funds For W. Virginia s Handicapped And Poor Instead Goes For Lobbying, Consulting," iWatch , 7/7/11) 

Obama's Stimulus Spent $7 Million Per Home To Extend Broadband Access In Montana. "Sadly, it's actually worse than that. Take the Montana project. The area is not in any meaningful sense unserved or even underserved. As many as seven broadband providers, including wireless, operate in the area. Only 1.5% of all households in the region had no wireline access. And if you include 3G wireless, there were only seven households in the Montana region that could be considered without access. So the cost of extending access in the Montana case comes to about  $7 million for each additional household served ." (Nick Schulz, "How Effective Was The 2009 Stimulus Program?," Forbes' "Economics 2.0" , 7/5/11) 

Misspending Of Stimulus Funds Was Predicted, But Obama Ignored Warnings: 

Earl Devaney, Chairman Of The Recovery Transparency And Accountability Board: "There Was Little In The Way Of Internal Controls." "The federal program's own watchdog had warned at the outset that some of the money in the Energy Department's weatherization program, part of the Obama administration's $787 billion stimulus intended to give a jolt to the economy, could be wasted. 'I have said from the beginning of the [economic] recovery program that weatherization is high-risk,' said Earl Devaney , who as chairman of the Recovery Transparency and Accountability Board is Washington's top cop overseeing how stimulus dollars are spent. Noted Devaney in a statement to iWatch News : 'There was little in the way of internal controls.'" (Evan Bush, "Stimulus Funds For W. Virginia s Handicapped And Poor Instead Goes For Lobbying, Consulting," iWatch , 7/7/11) 

Obama Bought The Advice Of Economists Who Said Any Spending, "Even The Worst Kind Of Boondoggle" Was Stimulative. "For the Obama transition teams and their allies on the Hill, three questions loomed large in designing the package. The first was whether the proposed spending was economically stimulative: Did it save or create jobs, and thereby put money in people's pockets? It turned out that economists believed almost any spending met this criterion. In a recession even the worst kind of boondoggle is stimulative, a fact that critics had a hard time comprehending." (Jonathan Alter, The Promise, Simon Shuster, 2010, p84) 



Download This Chart Here  or  Like On Facebook
