Who's There? 





To Mark 100 Days Before President Obama Accepts His Re-Nomination, The DNC Released A Video Entitled "I'm There" For The 2012 Convention.  ("I'm There: 2012 Democratic National Convention," DemConvention.com, Accessed 5/29/12) 

Who Won't Be There? Key Allies, Non-Union Labor 

More Than A Dozen Trade Unions Will Skip The 2012 Democrat Convention, A "Sign That Key Democratic Allies Are Unhappy With Obama."  "Casting North Carolina as an anti-union bastion with 'regressive policies aimed at diluting the power of workers,' more than a dozen trade unions affiliated with the national AFL-CIO have told the Democratic National Committee that they will sit out the 2012 convention in Charlotte, N.C. Coming on the heels of some liberals' complaints that President Barack Obama is giving in to Republicans, the unions' decision is another sign that key Democratic allies are unhappy with Obama and other party leaders as they gear up for a difficult election season." (Tim Funk and Kirsten Valle Pitman, "Some AFL-CIO-Affiliated Unions Say They'll Skip 2012 Democratic National Convention,"  McClatchy Newspapers ,   8/12/11) Mark Ayers, President Of The Building And Construction Trades Department, Wrote To DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz "That The Department And Its Thirteen Affiliates Comprised Of 2.5 Million Members Will Not Be Participating In The 2012 National Democrat Convention In September."  "Dear Congresswoman Wassmeran Schultz: On behalf of the Governing Board of Presidents of the Building and Construction Trades Department, that the Department and its thirteen affiliates comprised of 2.5 million members will not be participating in the 2012 National Democrat Convention in September." (Mark Ayers,  Letter To Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz , 8/09/11) 

Locals Are Planning To Skip Or Protest The Convention.  "Labor, which remains the bedrock organizing arm of the Democratic Party, is miffed that national Democrats chose to meet in the state with the smallest proportion of union members--just 2.9 percent of the workforce last year--to make their case for a strengthening the middle class and broadening economic prosperity. Some locals are planning to skip or even protest the convention, and labor has pointedly declined to contribute its expected share of the convention's costs, which will be upwards of $36 million this year." (Matt Taylor, "Tar Trap? Charlotte Convention Could Backfire For Obama,"  The Daily Beast , 5/23/12) 

And Non-Union Businesses Are Getting Discriminated Against In Securing Convention Contracts.  "This his has become an issue in the mayor s race there, and local businesspeople are beginning to complain publicly of being shut out of business by the Convention s preference for union shops, which may in some cases come from out of state." (Ben Smith, "A Democratic Convention Tests A Right-To-Work State,"  Politico , 11/04/11) 

Who Will Actually Be There? Corporate Donors And Lobbyists   

Democrat Lobbyist LeeAnn Petersen: If You Want Influence On Elected Officials, "The Convention Is The Place To Go. It's Like Shooting Fish In A Barrel."  "'If you want to go rub shoulders with elected officials and give them your 30-second elevator speech, the convention is the place to go. It s like shooting fish in a barrel' said former Democratic lobbyist LeeAnn Petersen, whose consulting firm Conventions 2012 arranges logistics for corporate clients seeking a presence at the events." (Matea Gold, "Democrats Give Special Interests A Role A Convention,"  Los Angeles Times,  4/5/12) 

Despite Democrats' Claims Of Not Taking Corporate Or Lobbyist Money, "Those Seemingly Strict Rules Appear To Have Some Loopholes," Specifically "In-Kind" Contributions.  "Democratic officials have emphasized for months that this year's convention won't accept money from lobbyists and corporations. 'This year, we are setting a new standard for how conventions are funded. No longer will it be sponsored with money from corporations, special interests, lobbyists and political action committees,' the host committee states on its website. But those seemingly strict rules appear to have some loopholes. While the convention committee itself won't accept cash donations from corporations, it is taking 'in kind' contributions from corporations, such as food, beverages, and equipment costs that can often add up into the millions." (Michael Isikoff, "Venue For Obama's Convention Speech Draws Criticism," MSNBC's  First Read , 1/18/12) "New Restrictions ... Don't Apply To The Host Committee" Allowing Corporations To Give In-Kind Contributions.  "The new restrictions, however, don't apply to the host committee itself. Duke Energy CEO Jim Rogers, who co-chairs the committee, is quietly raising up to $15 million for the committee, in part from corporate contributions. ... Corporations also are permitted to give in-kind contributions, such as telecommunications equipment or vehicles."   (Jim Morrill, "A Year Left To Sell The Democratic National Convention,"  The Charlotte Observer ,  9/6/11)   

Exploiting The Loophole, The Convention Will Offer An "Escalating Menu Of Packages" To Lobbyists And Corporate Donors Giving Up To $1 Million.  "Suzi Emmerling, a spokeswoman for the host committee, confirmed a Bloomberg report that those deals presented to Washington lobbyists last month include an escalating menu of packages starting with the $1 million 'presidential' level. Those who buy in will receive a 'premier uptown hotel room,' a 'platinum events package and 'concierge services.' Another $500,000 'Gold Rush' level includes hotel room, credentials and a 'premiere events package.'" (Michael Isikoff, "Venue For Obama's Convention Speech Draws Criticism," MSNBC's  First Read , 1/18/12) The Washington Post : "Registered Lobbyists, Though Banned From Making Direct Donations, Have Been Encouraged To Raise Up To $1 Million In Bundled Donations In Exchange For The Same Type Of Exclusive Access."  "Convention officials have decided to accept in-kind corporate donations, as well as unlimited gifts from charitable foundations. And, as Bloomberg News first reported, registered lobbyists, though banned from making direct donations, have been encouraged to raise up to $1 million in bundled donations in exchange for the same type of exclusive access -- premium hotel suites and event credentials -- that the new rules were intended to prevent." (David Nakamura, "Planners For Democratic Convention In Charlotte Scramble To Raise Funds,"  The Washington Post , 3/23/12) Lobbyists Who Bundle Can Receive "Special Perks, Such As Platinum Credentials, Concierge Services And VIP Tickets To Special Events."  "But lobbyists can still bundle large donations and qualify for special perks, such as platinum credentials, concierge services and VIP tickets to special events for those who raise $1 million." (Matea Gold, "Democrats Give Special Interests A Role A Convention,"  Los Angeles Times,  4/5/12) 

To Get Around A Ban On Corporate Money, Convention Officials Encourage Executives To Write Personal Checks.  "Despite the ban on corporate money, for example, convention officials have encouraged corporate executives to write personal checks, according to sources familiar with the fundraising. And they have suggested that corporations can participate by donating goods and services to the convention, and by giving up to $100,000 through a corporate foundation." (Matea Gold, "Democrats Give Special Interests A Role At Convention,"  The Los Angeles Times , 4/05/12) 

The Three Largest Donors To New American City Inc., A Key Fundraiser For The Convention, Are Wells Fargo, Bank Of America Corp., And Duke Energy Corp.  "The three largest donors to New American City say their donations are civic contributions to help their city. Bank of America, like Duke Energy, is based in Charlotte. Wells Fargo is based in San Francisco but recently acquired Wachovia Corp., which was based in Charlotte." (Brody Mullins and Peter Nicholas, "Democrats' Fund Taps Corporate Donors For Convention,"  The Wall Street Journal , 5/11/12)
