Republicans are sweating next year's Massachusetts Senate race, and for good reason. The latest poll, out on Wednesday from UMass Lowell and the Boston Herald , gave Democratic challenger Elizabeth Warren a seven point lead over incumbent Republican Sen. Scott Brown a 10 point swing from the group's previous survey. Which sort of explains this new ad hitting the airwaves in Massachusetts, from Karl Rove's dark-money outfit, Crossroads GPS: 



Notice something odd? Just a few weeks ago Rove's group released an ad chastising Warren, a Harvard Law School professor who started up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, for inciting Occupy Wall Street. Now, his group has done a complete 180. Warren's no longer a radical anti-capitalist crusader; she's Wall Street's best friend (albeit a friend one banker called the anti-Christ ). 

The kicker: As Michael Isikoff reported , A substantial portion of Crossroads GPS' money came from a small circle of extremely wealthy Wall Street hedge fund and private equity moguls. So Wall Street is attacking Warren for associating with Wall Street. Got it? 

Print Email Tweet Corn on Hardball: Obama and Appeasement Your Daily Newt: The Speaker as Anti-Colonial Samurai Tim Murphy 

Reporter 

Tim Murphy is a reporter at Mother Jones . Email him with tips and insights at tmurphy [at] motherjones [dot] com. RSS | Twitter 

Advertise on MotherJones.com If You Liked This, You Might Also Like... 

Rove s Crossroads GPS Takes On Elizabeth Warren 

Why the Massachusetts Senate race could be one of the most expensive ever. The Elizabeth Warren-Scott Brown Proxy War 

With the election still 12 months away, the Massachusetts Senate candidates are letting their friends do the fighting. Elizabeth Warren s Volunteer Army 

The Massachusetts Senate candidate is drawing big crowds--and they're coming to work. Check Out This Crazy Photo of an Elizabeth Warren Volunteer Meeting 

The Massachusetts Senate candidate has definitely excited the base. AUDIO: Elizabeth Warren Clarifies Her Occupy Wall Street Comments 

Under fire from the Right, the Massachusetts Senate candidate tries to clarify her statement that she developed the "intellectual foundation" for Occupy Wall Street. Get Mother Jones by Email - Free. Like what you're reading? Get the best of MoJo three times a week.
